 We're going to talk triathlon right now on Ocean FM Sport because Slago Triathlon Club are getting ready with their 2026 edition of the Women's Tri-a-Tri initiative and this is for female listeners. If you've never tried a triathlon before, this could be the time for you a 250-meter swim, a 10-kilometer cycle and cycle and a 3 kilometer run. We had the Sligo Triathlon Club in with us earlier this year for the men's try-a-try and now it's the turn of the women and in studio with me Rosie Dignam who's the women's officer for Sligo Triathlon Club and Keirne McGowan who is secretary of Sligo Triathlon Club. Folks thanks for coming in and Rosie you were ideally placed to talk about this Try a Try initiative because you were one of the triers a couple of years ago. Yes thank you. I was a try a try initiative participant a few years ago with the club and it's actually one of the best things I've done for myself. I'm really grateful to my past self for signing up. Were you sporty? Were you a Warriors run participant or a half marathon or a women's marathon, mini marathon runner? No, I was pretty sedentary when I signed up but I had been asked did I want to join a friend doing a marathon and my answer was oh I can't. I couldn't asked, did I want to join a friend doing a triathlon? And my answer was, oh, I can't. I couldn't swim. I was afraid of cycling on the road. And I thought to myself, oh, that's not OK. I need to be able to do these things. So I challenged myself and I signed up. How did you overcome the swimming obstacle? Felt the fear and did it anyway, to be very honest. I didn't even like my head being underwater and I was like okay I'll get myself to be able to swim the one length which I did and then I joined the club and the training and the structure of it just really supported me through it. The coaches and the others were amazing. I'm just trying to think the Slugger Sports Complex is 25 metres so 250 metres is 10 lengths of the pool. That's what you're gearing towards. Yeah, yeah, yeah, to begin with that's what you're gearing towards. And I remember thinking I couldn't do that. I couldn't do the 10 kilometre cycle, I couldn't do the run. And I was like, well, if I'm ever going to try this, this is where to do us. And are you completely transformed now? Are you a triathlon evangelist today? Yeah, yeah, yeah, like I am. I can get in the pool, I can swim a kilometer. I never thought that was in my range and I do. I just kept it up. I think just showing up is the first step and you'll be surprised at what you can do. Okay, a lot of people have signed up for the Women's Triad Tribe but there is still room for more and you have the next kind of five or six days to get your name in there. Who are you looking for? Is there an age profile? Is there a fitness profile? Yeah, we're looking for women 35 years and older. You should be able to swim at least one length of a pool and be able to confidently ride a bike but otherwise just a willingness to show up. Okay, and you'll take them on a training programme? Correct, we have three coaches, one for each discipline and they'll be brought through the whole programme. It's training twice a week on a Sunday and a Wednesday and yeah, basically we're holding your hand and we're going to get you to that finish line and whilst it might seem unrealistic at the moment, by the time you get to the end of the six weeks you'll fly it. OK, so you're not looking for elite Olympic athletes here? Absolutely not, no, absolutely not. It's me three years ago sitting on the couch. Okay and I mean if there is a female listener wandering and half-taught about it but just had that feeling, that feel, what would be your key message to them? Just show up, you won't regret it. Yeah. Okay. What was the most transformative thing for you from memory? When you did. I like just... it's hard to put into words but crossing that finish line and realizing oh I did that. I did that. You've done a triathlon. That's it. I did the three disciplines. I showed up for myself more than anything else. Okay. Ciaran McGowan, secretary of Slago Trattling Club. There's still time for people to get in on this. How long is the training course first of all? Six weeks program kicks off next Sunday in the pool. So we'd have swimming on Sundays, bike and run on Wednesday after Wednesday evenings over in Cleaver Sports Park. So we're still time to fill the program. We have another seven days if you like before we kick off and we're hoping to get everybody together on Wednesday evening in the Slaggo Park for a meet and greet with everybody. This coming Wednesday? This coming Wednesday at 6.30pm. Okay. So if you're unsure, you're on the fence, come along to that meeting. And what is the time commitment? You've indicated there the swim swimming on Sunday morning that maybe wins the evening for bike or or athletics training per say. So the swim will be 45 minutes. That's a Sunday evening. That's five o'clock. So it's a 45 minutes in the pool. Won't be constantly swimming. We'll be doing lots of different drills, just different exercises. And then on the Wednesday, it's about an hour and a half bike and run. How can people enter or apply? So all of the details are on our socials. So our Facebook or Instagram or our website slagotradlon.ie or you can also email us directly on the email address new members at slagotriathlon.ie OK, so that's the key email address, an easy way, new members at slagotriathlon.ie It sounds easy guys! Yeah, totally, 100%. Well show up, that's the easy part, we'll bring you through the rest, that's all you've got to do. Yeah, I mean triathlon is a popular women's discipline already, would that be fair to say, Rosie? Yeah, I think so, I think it's great for everyone, but for the how you feel after it, both in your body and your mind, it's an incredible sport to get involved with. Okay, well listen, the invitation is there if you're listening and you have wondered about trying a triathlon. Maybe this is the summer to do it with Sligo Triathlon. Their training starts next Sunday the 16th of August. All classes over the six-week training programme will be fully supervised and coached. There's a get-together this Wednesday evening, half-past-six in the Sligo Park Hotel Hotel if you want to meet other fellow participants and maybe help build your confidence with fellow participants and the coaches the Slago Park on Wednesday evening and new members at slagotreat.ie is the email address if you'd like to express your interest here. Great guys anything else I've left out there? It's a great way to meet new people in Sligo. If you're not from Sligo, or if you've just arrived, or if you just want to get back out there and meet some more people, this is a perfect opportunity to do that. Okay, the Try a Triathlon for women aged 35 and older. It starts next Sunday, the training. And the actual event that the participants will do Rosie is in September the 27th of September there will be an actual proper triathlon where you do your swim follow by the cycle follow by the run. Precisely and you'll be fully ready for us on the 27th of September. Okay there'll be no hand holding then maybe. Well within reason. Rosie Digham women's officer with Sligo Triathlon Club and Keir McGowan officer with Sligo Triathlon Club and Kier McGowan, secretary of Sligo Triathlon Club. Thanks for coming in to explain that and entice hopefully some new triathlon participants, new members at SligoTriathlon.ie It's the place to go if you want to send an email expressing your interest or you can find SligoTriathlon Club on Facebook and on Instagram.